= XenApi

Xen API XMLRPC Client library for working with XenServers

== Quick Example

In this quick example we connect, login and invoke an API method.

  require 'xenapi'
  client = XenApi::Client.new('http://xenapi.test')
  client.login_with_password('root', 'password')
  client.VM.get_all

Another variant for connecting and using the API is the block-based method.

  require 'xenapi'
  XenApi.connect(['http://xenapi.test'], 'root', 'password') do |client|
    vms = client.VM.get_all
    vms.each do |vm|
      record = client.VM.get_record(vm)
      unless record['is_a_template'] || record['is_control_domain']
        name = record['name_label']
        puts "Found VM uuid #{record['uuid']} called #{name}"
      end
    end
  end

This will likely be enough information to get you on your feet with
the API, for more details see {XenApi::Client} and the API documentation of Citrix.

* API Documentation: http://docs.vmd.citrix.com/XenServer/5.6.0sp2/1.0/en_gb/api/
* Other SDK variants: http://community.citrix.com/display/xs/Download+SDKs

== Restrictions

* The xmlrpc library as well as net/http of Ruby do not support unix domain
  sockets by default. Susequently this library supports only the HTTP and HTTS
  transports.
* SSL certificates are currently not checked.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Geoff Garside. See LICENSE for details.
